# Article

This project involves exploratory data analysis (EDA) on a dataset containing information about Indian startup companies and their funding history from 2018 to 2021. EDA is a data analysis technique that involves inspecting, cleaning, processing, and modelling data to extract meaningful information to make decisions. The goal of this project is to use the CRISP-DM framework as a guide to perform exploratory data analysis and draw insights from useful information found.
The CRISP-DM framework involves understanding the needs of the company and the solutions requested from the data, exploring the data to understand what the dataset is about, cleaning the data set by removing null values, and duplicate values, formatting the data types, removing inconsistent values, etc., manipulating the data to draw insights and conclusions, and presenting the findings.
The objective of this project is to investigate the Indian startup ecosystem as an analyst of an investment company so that the company can make data-driven decisions about entering into the Indian startup business.
The project scenario case involves asking questions to guide the analysis such as the top five sectors where funding is maximum, the maximum amount of funding received by a startup, the top five startups that are investors’ favourite, the total amount of funds each year, and the year in which a startup received the highest amount of funding. Through this analysis, the investment company can make informed decisions about investing in the Indian startup ecosystem.
After the analysis, it was observed that in the Indian Ecosystem ,the top industry in terms of funding is FinTech, with $153.86 billion, followed by Retail with $70.54 billion, and EdTech with $6.38 billion. Other industries in the list include Tech Company, E-commerce, Automotive, Multinational Conglomerate Company, Financial Services, Food Delivery, and Hospitality, all of which received varying amounts of funding.
In terms of locations, Mumbai is the top location with the highest funding amount of $231.53 billion, followed by Bangalore with $24.52 billion. Other locations include Gurugram, New Delhi, and California, all of which received varying amounts of funding.
